while it might be easy to
recognize twins growing older
predicting what their brains
will do is not so simple to gain
insight to the tween brain we're
asking people on the boardwalk
some questions about good and
bad ideas
is it a good idea to eat salad
how about bugs with ice cream is
it a good idea to go to the gym
and work out
I think eating ice cream with
bugs on it is a horrible idea
going to the gym is a good idea
a good idea is Alan these
questions might seem easy even
obvious but it's not what you
answer but how you answered that
says a lot about what stage of
life your brain might be at
young children generally
answered quickly based on rules
they've learned from grown-ups
what do you think about swimming
in water where there might be
some sharks grown-ups of course
have learned these rules over a
lifetime and also answer quickly
as a terrible idea to swim in
water with shocks
I think it's a terrible idea and
water you see sharks what do you
want to be fish bait but things
are different with the tween
brain
what do you think about maybe
swimming with sharks
they're not naturally going to
like are you okay you are on the
fence as well
yeah it wouldn't be in to meet
you they just speak your
personal legacy he'll
swimming with sharks seriously
why aren't our tweens outright
rejecting a bad idea
we often criticized tweens for
acting out of self-centeredness
but these girls are doing
something too much younger girls
aren't we are exploring their
options in the teen years in the
very beginning of adolescent the
world is yours the possibilities
are infinite almost like another
toddlerhood in terms of the
explosion of independent thought
they become super self-centered
is the sort of idea right and
the thing is if you look a
little more closely it might
look like they're being self
centered on the surface yeah
they're actually being hyper
vigilant
they're being aware of
themselves in context
considering the possibility
night which is a really
important part of learning about
the world you have to consider
the possibilities
yesterday
surprising right what we think
of as preteens being
self-centered might actually be
your early adolescent brain
doing its due diligence making
decisions not from selfishness
but from taking the time to
consider all of your options and
everyone else's point of view